# Option Types {#arcanedoc_core_types_axl_caseoptions_options}

[TOC]

## Simple Options {#arcanedoc_core_types_axl_caseoptions_options_simple}

They are described by the `<tt>simple</tt>` element:

```xml
<simple name="simple-real" type="real">
  <description>Simple real</description>
</simple>
```

The `type` attribute can take one of the following values:

- `real` for real numbers. They correspond to the Arccore::Real type.
- `integer` for integers. They correspond to the Arccore::Integer type.
- `int32` for integers. They correspond to the Arccore::Int32 type.
- `int64` for integers. They correspond to the Arccore::Int64 type.
- `bool` for booleans. They correspond to the C++ `bool` type.
- `string` for character strings. They correspond to the Arccore::String class.

For the previous example, the dataset contains, for instance, the line:

```xml
<simple-real>3.4</simple-real>
```

## Enumerated Options {#arcanedoc_core_types_axl_caseoptions_options_enum}

They are described by the `<tt>enumeration</tt>` element:

```xml
<enumeration name="boundary-condition" type="eBoundaryCondition" default="X">
  <description>Boundary condition type</description>
  <enumvalue name="X" genvalue="VelocityX"/>
  <enumvalue name="Y" genvalue="VelocityY"/>
  <enumvalue name="Z" genvalue="VelocityZ"/>
</enumeration>
```

The \c type attribute must indicate the name of the corresponding C++
enumeration (here \c eBoundaryCondition). If the enumeration belongs to a C++
namespace (\c namespace), it is possible to specify it directly (e.g., \c
MonCode::eBoundaryCondition).

This type of option includes a list of child elements <tt>enumvalue</tt> which
reference each value of the enumeration. This element has two attributes:
- `name` indicates which user value this enumeration corresponds to. These are
  the values the user will enter.
- `genvalue` indicates the name of the corresponding enumeration in the C++
  language.

In the previous example, the option corresponds to the following C++
enumeration:

```cpp
enum eBoundaryCondition { VelocityX, VelocityY, VelocityZ };
```

The enumeration definition must be effective before including the file
*Test_axl.h*. For example, if the previous enumeration is defined in a file
*BoundaryCondition.h*, you must include the files in the following order:
```cpp
#include "BoundaryCondition.h"
#include "Test_axl.h"
```

If the dataset contains the line:

```xml
<boundary-condition>X</boundary-condition>
```

then the associated option in the C++ class generated by the file will have the
value <tt>VelocityX</tt>.

## Extended Options {#arcanedoc_core_types_axl_caseoptions_options_extended}

The usage interface for this option type is currently being defined.
For now, this option type should only be used with mesh entity groups defined by
%Arcane.

Extended options are described by the <tt>extended</tt> element:

```xml
<extended name="surface" type="Arcane::FaceGroup">
  <description>
    Surface on which the boundary condition applies
  </description>
</extended>
```

The <b>type</b> attribute can take one of the following values:

- *Arcane::NodeGroup* for a node group
- *Arcane::FaceGroup* for a face group
- *Arcane::CellGroup* for a mesh group

If an option of this type exists, its value is validated after reading the mesh
and must correspond to an existing group of the correct type.

For the developer, an \c extended type option generates an object of type
<tt>Arcane::NodeGroup</tt>, <tt>Arcane::FaceGroup</tt> or
<tt>Arcane::CellGroup</tt> which is therefore used as a group. For example, with
the previous option named <tt>surface</tt>, the <tt>surface()</tt> method of the
class managing the dataset returns a face group of type
<tt>Arcane::FaceGroup</tt> and the following line is valid:

```cpp
ENUMERATE_FACE(i,surface())
```

For the previous example, if XMIN is a surface defined on the mesh, the dataset
contains, for example, the line:

```xml
<surface>XMIN</surface>
```

## Complex Options {#arcanedoc_core_types_axl_caseoptions_options_complex}

A complex option is composed of several other options, including other complex
options. The complex option is described by the <tt>complex</tt> element.

The following example defines a <tt>pair-of-int</tt> option composed of two
simple options <tt>first</tt> and <tt>second</tt>:

```xml
<complex name="pair-of-int" type="PairOfInt">
  <simple name="first" type="integer">
  <simple name="second" type="integer">
</complex>
```

The corresponding dataset is:

```xml
<pair-of-int>
  <first>5</first>
  <second>6</second>
</pair-of-int>
```

## Service Options {#arcanedoc_core_types_axl_caseoptions_options_service}

The concept of a %Arcane service is explained in section \ref
arcanedoc_core_types_service.
We simply recall that a service is an external component used by a module and is
therefore necessary for the module to function. For the module to function, its
dataset must reference the necessary service using the <tt>service-instance</tt>
element.

The following example defines a service named *eos-model* of type
\c IEquationOfState:

```xml
<service-instance name="eos-model" type="IEquationOfState">
  <description>Equation of state service</description>
</service-instance>
```

The \c IEquationOfState class corresponds to the interface defined for the
service. If the class belongs to a C++ namespace (\c namespace), it is possible
to specify it directly (e.g., \c MonCode::IEquationOfState).

The corresponding dataset is:

```xml
<eos-model name="StiffenedGas">
  <limit-tension>0.01</limit-tension>
</eos-model>
```

It is also possible to add the mesh name to the dataset:

```xml

<eos-model name="StiffenedGas" mesh-name="Mesh0">
  <limit-tension>0.01</limit-tension>
</eos-model>
```

The code to read the option is:

```cpp
IEquationOfState* eos = options()->eosModel();
```

Services can have the following attributes:
<table>
<tr>
<th>Attribute</th>
<th>Type</th>
<th>Description</th>
</tr>
<tr>
<td>allow-null</td>
<td>bool</td>
<td>If \c false (the default), the service specified in the dataset must exist.
If it does not, an error will occur during reading. If this attribute is
\c true, and the specified service does not exist, the corresponding option will
be null and its value must be checked. For example:

```cpp
IEquationOfState* eos = options()->eosModel();
if (!eos)
  info() << "Specified service unavailable";
```
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>optional</td>
<td>bool</td>
<td>If \c false (the default), the service is always created, and if the
corresponding element does not exist in the dataset, the service with the
default name will be created. If this attribute is \c true and the element is
not present in the dataset, no service is created.
</td>
</tr>

<tr>
<td>mesh-name</td>
<td>string</td>
<td>The name of the mesh to which the service will be associated. When the
service is constructed, the value of Arcane::ServiceBuildInfo::mesh() will be
the mesh with the name \a mesh-name. If no value is specified for this field,
the parent service's mesh will be used. If there is no parent service, the
default mesh (Arcane::ISubDomain::defaultMesh()) will be used.

If the mesh associated with this service does not exist, the option and any
possible sub-options are ignored.

This option is available starting from version 2.0.7 of %Axlstar and 3.8.4 of
%Arcane.

\warning It is possible to specify the `mesh-name` attribute in AXL ET/OU and/or
in the dataset (.ARC). The AXL one can be seen as a default `mesh-name` for a
given service instance. If the `mesh-name` is specified in the dataset (.ARC),
it will override the `mesh-name` specified in the AXL.
</td>
</tr>

</table>

____

<div class="section_buttons">
<span class="back_section_button">
\ref arcanedoc_core_types_axl_caseoptions_common_struct
</span>
<span class="next_section_button">
\ref arcanedoc_core_types_axl_caseoptions_usage
</span>
</div>
