# Dataset {#arcanedoc_examples_simple_example_arc}

[TOC]

Our `HelloWorld` application needs a dataset to function.
Here is the dataset generated by `arcane_template`, enhanced with an `option`.
\note
The `.arc` files are not compiled with the application. They can
therefore be modified afterwards. Furthermore, we can have several of them to
vary the simulation (which is somewhat the goal, by the way).

## HelloWorld.arc {#arcanedoc_examples_simple_example_arc_helloworldarc}
```xml
<?xml version="1.0"?>
<case codename="HelloWorld" xml:lang="en" codeversion="1.0">

  <arcane>
    <title>3steps</title>
    <timeloop>HelloWorldLoop</timeloop>
  </arcane>

  <meshes>
    <mesh>
      <generator name="Cartesian2D" >
        <nb-part-x>1</nb-part-x> 
        <nb-part-y>1</nb-part-y>
        <origin>0.0 0.0</origin>
        <x><n>20</n><length>2.0</length></x>
        <y><n>20</n><length>2.0</length></y>
      </generator>
    </mesh>
  </meshes>

  <say-hello>
    <nSteps>3</nSteps>
  </say-hello>

</case>
```
Several things should be noted here.
First, we find the name of our application on the second line.

Next:
```xml
<arcane>
  <title>3steps</title>
  <timeloop>HelloWorldLoop</timeloop>
</arcane>
```
We have the title of our dataset. It must describe the dataset.
This dataset allows for 3 loop iterations, hence `3steps`.

Then, we have `<timeloop>HelloWorldLoop</timeloop>`. This is the name of the
time loop in our program. This name must be identical to the one given in the
`.config` file (see the next section
\ref arcanedoc_examples_simple_example_config).

____

```xml
<meshes>
  <mesh>
    <generator name="Cartesian2D" >
      <x><n>20</n><length>2.0</length></x>
      <y><n>20</n><length>2.0</length></y>
      <origin>0.0 0.0</origin>
      <nb-part-x>1</nb-part-x> 
      <nb-part-y>1</nb-part-y>
    </generator>
  </mesh>
</meshes>
```

This part allows calling the `Cartesian2DMeshGenerator` service (developer
documentation only), which allows creating a 2D Cartesian mesh. In this example,
we generate a mesh of 20x20 cells, with a total size of 2.0x2.0 (so each cell
is (0.5, 0.5)) with an origin at (0.0, 0.0) and a subdivision into 1x1
subdomains (so there is 1x1=1 subdomain).

It is possible to specify a mesh file whose format is recognized by %Arcane. In
this case, you must replace the `<generator>` tag with
`<filename>filename_name</filename>`:

____

```xml
<meshes>
  <mesh>
    <filename>sod.msh</filename>
  </mesh>
</meshes>
```

For more information on possible mesh values, refer to the page
\ref axldoc_service_ArcaneCaseMeshMasterService_arcane_impl
____

```xml
<say-hello>
  <nSteps>3</nSteps>
</say-hello>
```
This part concerns only the `SayHello` module.
Indeed, each module can have options recorded in the dataset.
The module name is converted to low-case and capital letters are preceded by a
hyphen.
\remarks
Several examples to understand:
```log
SayHello -> say-hello
SAYHello -> s-a-y-hello
sayhello -> sayhello
```

In the middle, we find our option `<nSteps>3</nSteps>` which we saw in the
previous section. We give it the value 3, which means that the instruction
`options()->getNStep()` will return the value 3.

\remarks
As a reminder, in the `.axl` of the `SayHello` module, we had this:
```xml
<options>
  <simple name="nSteps" type="integer" default="10">
    <description>Nombre de boucle à effectuer.</description>
  </simple>
</options>
```
We can clearly see the link between `.axl` and `.arc`.

____

<div class="section_buttons">
<span class="back_section_button">
\ref arcanedoc_examples_simple_example_module
</span>
<span class="next_section_button">
\ref arcanedoc_examples_simple_example_config
</span>
</div>
