# Usage of Results {#arcanedoc_io_timehistory_results_usage}

[TOC]

Here is an example of the files generated by the previous section's example:

```log
.
└── output
    └── courbes
        ├── curves.acv
        ├── gnuplot
        │   ├── avg_pressure
        │   ├── CpuTime
        │   ├── ElapsedTime
        │   ├── GlobalCpuTime
        │   ├── GlobalElapsedTime
        │   ├── GlobalTime
        │   ├── Mesh0_avg_pressure
        │   ├── Mesh0_SD0_avg_pressure
        │   ├── Mesh0_SD1_avg_pressure
        │   ├── Mesh0_SD2_avg_pressure
        │   ├── Mesh0_SD3_avg_pressure
        │   ├── Mesh1_avg_pressure
        │   ├── Mesh1_SD0_avg_pressure
        │   ├── Mesh1_SD1_avg_pressure
        │   ├── Mesh1_SD2_avg_pressure
        │   ├── Mesh1_SD3_avg_pressure
        │   ├── SD0_avg_pressure
        │   ├── SD1_avg_pressure
        │   ├── SD2_avg_pressure
        │   ├── SD3_avg_pressure
        │   └── TotalMemory
        ├── time_history.json
        └── time_history.xml
```

We have two types of files here: the "summary" and the curve files generated by
writers.

The `time_history.json` file (and `time_history.xml`, kept for compatibility
reasons) is a JSON format "summary."
It contains all information about value histories such as the history name, the
support, the source subdomain, and a unique name.
It is generated regardless of which writers are enabled.

Furthermore, two writers are active by default (they implement the
Arcane::ITimeHistoryCurveWriter2 interface):

- ArcaneCurveWriter
- GnuplotTimeHistoryCurveWriter2

Their documentation is available in the %Arcane developer documentation.

## GnuplotTimeHistoryCurveWriter2

This writer generates all files contained in the `gnuplot` folder.
Each file is in the form:

```log
1.7385346701095061E-01 6.3790000000000001E-03
3.4770693402190123E-01 6.5709999999999996E-03
5.2156040103285184E-01 6.1009999999999997E-03
```

Each line designates an iteration.
Two columns: the first column contains the simulation time, the second column
designates the history value.

For reading these files, using the "summary" can be useful since these files
contain no additional information.

## ArcaneCurveWriter

This writer generates the `curves.acv` file.
This file is an %Arcane format and contains all information about all curves.
The "summary" file is therefore not necessarily useful for this format.

To utilize this file, we can use the `arcane_curves` program, found in
`install_dir/bin/arcane_curves`.

\todo To be followed

____

<div class="section_buttons">
<span class="back_section_button">
\ref arcanedoc_io_timehistory_howto
</span>
<span class="next_section_button">
\ref arcanedoc_io_timehistory_acv
</span>
</div>
